Now, in this section we are finally going to look at smart pointers.
C++ is a very complex language with many features and many best practices to adhere to.
One of the features that programmers often struggle with our pointers and references.
We have seen in previous sections that you have to take
care not to shoot yourself in the foot with memory leaks,
with dangling pointers, with memory access,
and so on, and so forth.
In other languages such as Java,
many of these problems are solved using a technique called garbage collection,
where the system automatically deallocates memory for you when it is no longer needed.
With the introduction of C++ 11 though,
we now have something similar in the C world,
or in the C++ word,
which is called smart pointers.
The main idea behind smart pointers is to wrap an object around a resource,
allocate memory when the constructor is called,
and automatically deallocate it when the destructor
is called again as soon as the object leaves its scop.
The programmer no longer has to care about
finding the proper place for deallocation here.
The concept behind this is called Resource Allocation Is Initialization,
or RAII for short.
We will look at an example in the section soon.
So you will soon know what this concept is all about.
Also, we will investigate the properties of the various smart pointer types,
which are unique pointer,
shared pointer and weak pointer.
Also, we will look at a collection of guidelines and
when to use them and when to stick with the old raw pointers.
Let's go and have a look here.